Better type guidance (#50674)
dotnet/docs: docs/csharp/fundamentals/types/index.md

For more information, see [Casting and Type Conversions](../../programming-guide/types/casting-and-type-conversions.md).

## Built-in types

C# provides a standard set of built-in types. These types represent integers, floating point values, Boolean expressions, text characters, decimal values, and other types of data. The language also includes built-in `string` and `object` types. You can use these types in any C# program. For a complete list of the built-in types, see [Built-in types](../../language-reference/builtin-types/built-in-types.md).

## Custom types

Create structural types by using [tuples](../../language-reference/builtin-types/value-tuples.md) when your app needs to define structural types. These types provide a structure that holds multiple members. Tuples have limited behavior. They're a container for values. These are the simplest types you can create. You might later decide you need behavior. In that case, you can convert a tuple to either a `struct` or `class`.

> Use the [`struct`](../../language-reference/builtin-types/struct.md), [`class`](../../language-reference/keywords/class.md), [`interface`](../../language-reference/keywords/interface.md), [`enum`](../../language-reference/builtin-types/enum.md), and [`record`](../../language-reference/builtin-types/record.md) constructs to create your own custom types. The .NET class library itself is a collection of custom types that you can use in your own applications. By default, the most frequently used types in the class library are available in any C# program. You make other types available by explicitly adding a project reference to the assembly that defines them. After the compiler has a reference to the assembly, you can declare variables and constants of the types declared in that assembly in source code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the [`struct`](../../language-reference/builtin-types/struct.md), [`class`](../../language-reference/keywords/class.md), [`interface`](../../language-reference/keywords/interface.md), [`enum`](../../language-reference/builtin-types/enum.md), and [`record`](../../language-reference/builtin-types/record.md) constructs to create your own custom types. The .NET class library itself is a collection of custom types that you can use in your own applications. By default, the most frequently used types in the class library are available in any C# program. You make other types available by explicitly adding a package reference to the package that provides them. After the compiler has a reference to the package, you can declare variables and constants of the types declared in that package's assemblies in source code.
```

Declare a type with one or more *type parameters* that act as placeholders for the actual type (the *concrete type*). Client code provides the concrete type when it creates an instance of the type. These types are called *generic types*. For example, the .NET type <xref:System.Collections.Generic.List%601?displayProperty=nameWithType> has one type parameter that by convention is named `T`. When you create an instance of the type, you specify the type of the objects that the list contains, such as `string`:

:::code language="csharp" source="../../programming-guide/types/snippets/index/Program.cs" ID="GenericType":::

Using the type parameter makes it possible to reuse the same class to hold any type of element, without having to convert each element to [object](../../language-reference/builtin-types/reference-types.md). Generic collection classes are *strongly typed collections* because the compiler knows the specific type of the collection's elements and can raise an error at compile time if, for example, you try to add an integer to the `stringList` object in the previous example. For more information, see [Generics](generics.md).

## Tuples and anonymous types

> Creating a type for simple sets of related values can be inconvenient if you don't intend to store or pass these values outside type boundaries. You can create *tuples* or *anonymous types* for this purpose. For more information, see [tuples](../../language-reference/builtin-types/value-tuples.md) and [Anonymous Types](anonymous-types.md).

Reviewer: Will the reader know what type boundaries are?
